---
layout: post
title: Interview with Marc Goldchstein - Teacher in Entrepreneurship (VUB/ICAB)
---

h1. {{ page.title }}

p(meta). 2 May 2011 - Brussels

??"I wouldn't go ahead with starting a company. I would look for early startups or technical people with an idea and develop that. There is nothing wrong with joining a startup. There is a great demand for that. But, if you really have *something he expressed by clenching his hands and eyes*, then by all means you should do it."??

To enter the conversation, I said that we reached the conclusion that it is not a good idea to launch another consultancy. Marc said: "There are a lot of starting companies that involve in consulting, training and research. Therefore, I wouldn't recommend consulting. There is Betagroup, ICAB, consultants, ... There are already a lot of players who do this." Indeed, I fully agree. There too many players in the market already. Therefore, going into the direction of technology solutions instead is a more interesting endeavor since it is possible to pursue an innovative or creative idea. For example, one idea I had in mind is to provide research and market data specifically targeted to web and mobile entrepreneurs. Marc responded with: "I am skeptical. I wouldn't do that unless you really have deep market research. And targeting "entrepreneurs" is really difficult. The market needs of 3D camera entrepreneurs are entirely different from that of web entrepreneurs. If you had said my target group is construction workers, I would have said okay because their needs are very similar."

Marc's advice for young entrepreneurs is that instead of launching a company without something innovative or competitive, it is more interesting to search for individuals or young companies who do and collaborate or work for them. He said: "You are still young and you are not really experienced. Unless you really have a groundbreaking idea, I would look for technical people who already have started something. They are looking for people like you, who can understand technical aspects and who know something about something like marketing. I mean if you have something worked out, which is a good opportunity, then you should pursue it. But, I wouldn't start a company, I would look for starting companies that are hiring. For example, I am on the board of company that was doing 3D cameras, they recently merged with another company into SoftKinetics, I know that they are looking for people like you. They are growing fast now. Then there is Collibri, a company that is working on semantics for database content, but they are looking more for programmers at the moment. I know that they are looking for people like you and Christophe. Collibri is looking for someone in the service/helpdesk with technical knowledge. There are interesting ideas out there. There is nothing wrong with teaming with a technical minded person and develop their ideas. You could have both a share. But, don't get me wrong; if you have an interesting opportunity, you should pursue it by all means."

I told Marc that I also was interested in developing solutions that involved mobile technologies. There are currently players on the Belgian market that provide mobile solutions; however none of them provide it in a way that is interesting to entrepreneurs, who are looking to make applications of their own. Marc responded that it could be interesting, but that if it already exists in the U.S., then there is a strong possibility that someone is already working on this. Marc: "Do you have any experience with coding?" To which I responded: "Yes, Chris and I have experience in PHP, but we're not pros or anything. I am also familiar with Ruby on Rails." 

What followed next is that Marc presented me to Betagroup coworking. Ramon Suarez is the founder of the coworking space and he is involved in the web entrepreneurship scene in Brussels. The Betagroup itself is a community of web and tech entrepreneurs. The reason for referring me to the Betagroup and the coworking space is that it a gateway to entrepreneurs and the community. This makes it possible to find those technical people who are looking to launch their innovations. To get involved, Ramon summarized a few steps: 

# Register at betagroup.be
# Register at westartup.eu
# Check out Brussels Startup Weekend
# Check out http://www.feweb.be/

_Thanks for your time. I'll hope to see you guys soon._
