---
layout: post
title: Interview with Marnix Housen and Jean Vereecken from Incubation Centre Arsenal Brussels
---

h1. {{ page.title }}

p(meta). 13 September 2011 - Brussels

??Incubation Centre Arsenal Brussels (ICAB) is a joint project of Vrije Universiteit Brussel, Brussels Capital Region, Brussels Regional Development Agency and the private sector, with participation of IMEC, Palladium Group, KBC Bank, Ethias and the Brussels I3 Fund (venture capital fund of the Vrije Universiteit Brussel). I had the opportunity to interview Marnix Housing, who serves as the chief executive officer at ICAB, and Jean Vereecken, who is a managing director. Before doing so, I also presented a project that aims to setup a club for young entrepreneurs (students & young alumni) to get feedback on the idea.??

The idea I am looking to explore finds its origin in a group of recent Solvay graduates of the master of business and technology, who are interested in setting up a club for young entrepreneurs. Basically, the reason we believe this is valuable is because we have an unfulfilled need ourself for three main things (described below). We also observe that students are looking for these thing.

# Connect with other young minds (students and young alumni) who are interested in entrepreneurship to share ideas, knowledge and experiences;
# Stimulate entrepreneurship students and young alumni;
# Bring these young entrepreneurial minds closer to the ecosystem of technology entrepreneurship to get a better exposure to opportunities at startup companies, investors, coaching and incubators.

One could argue that there are already many things out there with the aim of helping entrepreneurs. How does this project differ from what is out there?

People go through a transition before they become committed to entrepreneurship or launch their first project. This club is the place where these young minds can make that transition. Most communities exist out of members that are already committed to entrepreneurship, are launching their projects or already have several years of professional experience. Such communities usually do not make for a good fit.

We observe that no organization or project at the moment is focused at students and young alumni. For example, even through Solvay has strong entrepreneurial roots, it is very surprising to find that there is no student organization that is dedicated to entrepreneurship. Indeed there are many initiatives to help entrepreneurs, but little is to be found to stimulate and help people to make the transition to entrepreneurship. Therefore it makes sense to provide a place where a transition is optimal for  students and young alumni to engage. There is no reason to make this club exclusive. We want to unite students and young alumni from different orientations (engineers, marketeers, designers, etc.) or different universities. 

ICAB is ready to help out by giving access to their facilities and their network. The people from ICAB also shared a piece of advice:

* Reach out to student and alumni organizations and test whether you can engage them in this sort of thing;
* To manage operations the project needs a community manager, a computer, a place where you can host the events or meetings; 
* Look for a partnership with or inspiration from the creative incubator. The creative incubator allocates tasks and projects at startups under the same principle as a "Science Store". Science stores turn to students for research, for which the topics are sourced from companies. The creative incubator is doing a similar undertaking for certain tasks at startup companies.


What follows next is a summarized version of my questions on ICAB and the answers of Mr. Vereecken and Mr. Housen.

1/ ICAB helps entrepreneurs and technology startups become a sustainable and profitable business. Why and when should I come to ICAB?

ICAB is an incubator and operates as a "hotel" for startups. ICAB provides an infrastructure for logistics, services or strategic advice. Entrepreneurs who are interested in getting hosted at ICAB sign up for a service contract ("dienstencontract") for an indefinite period. One can cancel the contract within 3 months of notice. ICAB also provides coworking space in cooperation with Betagroup. 

There is no specific phase for which we have a preference. We have helped entrepreneurs from idea conception until maturity. We also receive people with a solid business case. Although you have better odds for acceptance or investment when you have solid business case, a lot depends on the drive of the individual who is pushing their idea or project. 


2/ Can you guide me through the process on how I can go about this if I have an innovative idea? How does ICAB evaluate which companies they host?

When entrepreneurs are interested, they have to reach out to us. Next, we have a discussion to evaluate their project. We also tap into our network for the expertise needed to assess the technology and business opportunity of the project. Although we are incubator that specializes in information- and communication technology or projects that have a technology component, we tend to accept consultancies for IT or other specific sectors (such as the financial sector). If we adhere strictly to the conditions we set forth, then we would not accept many companies. That's why we weigh heavily the requirement that the startup should have an added value to the ecosystem.

A project must differentiate from existing players or be even innovative in its technology or business processes. When someone wants to get hosted at ICAB, we expect that they take the initiative and have perseverance to pursue their endeavor.


3/ How many companies are you hosting at the moment? At what level of your capacity are you operating?

We are currently hosting 15 companies with a occupancy rate of 47%. We have the capacity to host 20 to 40 companies depending on the level of involvement with each company. 


4/ How do you measure success or growth and what does ICAB get in return?

ICAB is still very young. The inauguration was in January 2010, although we started 2009. We exist for two years, therefore it is difficult to evaluate our growth or success since we do not have a reference. In terms of what we get in return, I need to make clear that our model differs from the traditional US incubator, where a financial return may be part of the model. Our objective is not financial, rather our mission focuses only on helping entrepreneurs and technology startups. Achieving this objective is what we get in return.


5/ Can you tell me more about the ICAB team and who is responsible for what?
Mister Marnix Housen is the chief executive officer of ICAB and responsible for the day-to-day management. Professor Vereecken is the managing director. Marc Goldchstein is a coach at ICAB. For most of the services and expertise we tap into an extensive network of people outside ICAB because we feel there is no need for duplication of such services. 

We rely heavily on our strategic partners. We partner with the Technology Transfer Interface of Vrije Universiteit Brussel (TTI), Brussels Regional Development Agency (BRDA), Brussels Enterprise Agency (BEA), Institution in the Brussels-Capital Region Encouraging Scientific Research and Innovation (Innoviris), Agoria en Sirris. We are at the moment in discussion with Reseau Entrepreneuriat because they have an existing module for coaching, on which we could rely in the future for coaching startups at ICAB.


6/ Can you tell me about a recent success story?

Recently, there was a startup that was working on consultancy software for decision making. Mistral, one of our network partners, has helped that startup to develop their idea. There was a similar experience for another startup. In my view, this are successes in accordance to the mission we set forth for ICAB, which is to help entrepreneurs and startups.
